.TH codata_cli 1 "05 July 2026" "2.5.4" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
codata \- libray for fundamental physical constants


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B codata 
[\fIOPTION\fP]\.\.\.



.SH DESCRIPTION
.B codata
is a command line interface which prints all the CODATA constants.
.PP
The current values are from 2022.
Older values can be retrieved if needed and
the output can be filtered with \fIREGEX PATTERNS\fP.



.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B
\fB\-y\fP, \fB\-\-year\fP \fIYEAR\fP
CODATA constants: 2022, 2018, 2014, 2010
.TP
 \fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-pattern\fP \fIPATTERN\fP
Regex pattern for filtering the constants.
.TP
.B
\fB\-a\fP, \fB\-\-value\fP
Show only the value.
.TP
.B
\fB\-e\fP, \fB\-\-error\fP
Show only the uncertainty.
.TP
.B
\fB\-u\fP, \fB\-\-usage\fP
Show usage text and exit.
.TP
.B
\fB\-v\fP,\fB\-\-version\fP
Show version information and exit.
.TP
.B
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Show help text and exit.



.SH NOTES
.PP
You may replace the default options from a file if your first
options begin with @file.
Initial options will then be read from the "response file"
"file.rsp" in the current directory.
.PP
If "file" does not exist or cannot be read, then an error occurs and
the program stops. Each line of the file is prefixed with "options"
and interpreted as a separate argument. The file itself may not
contain @file arguments. That is, it is not processed recursively.
.PP
For more information on response files see
https://urbanjost.github.io/M_CLI2/set_args.3m_cli2.html




.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Minimal example
.nf
.ft CR
     codata
     codata -p Faraday
     codata -y 2014 -p molar.*gas,electron.*eV
     codata [B,b]oltzmann.*eV
.ft R
.fi



.SH SEE ALSO
.BR codata (3),
.BR codata_cli (1),
.BR codata_version (3),
.BR codata_constant_type (3)
