.TH codata 7 "22 June 2026" "2.5.3" " Miscellaneous Information Manual"

.SH NAME
codata \- libray for fundamental physical constants


.SH LIBRARY
Codata library 
.RI ( libcodata ", " \-lcodata )


.SH SYNOPSIS
.IP Fortran 10 
.B use codata\fP

.IP C 10
.B #include \(dqcodata.h\(dq

.IP Python 10
.B import pycodata



.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBcodata\fP is a Fortran library providing the fundamental physical constants
published by CODATA. 
It includes the 2022, 2018, 2014 and 2010 recommended values, 
allowing applications to reproduce calculations based on specific 
CODATA releases.

.PP
The constants are implemented as a derived type that carries:
.I the name, the value, the uncertainty, and the unit.
All the constants are provided as \fBdouble precision reals\fP.
Long constant names can be aliased with shorter names.

.PP
It provides:
.IP \(bu 5 
CODATA 2022 constants
.IP \(bu 5 
CODATA 2018 constants
.IP \(bu 5 
CODATA 2014 constants
.IP \(bu 5 
CODATA 2010 constants
.IP \(bu 5 
Native Fortran API
.IP \(bu 5 
C interoperability API
.IP \(bu 5 
Python bindings

.SH DOCUMENTATION 
.PP
The API is written as POSIX-style man pages which are distributed with the binaries. 
.TP 
HTML
https://milanskocic.github.io/codata/index.html
.TP 
PDF 
https://milanskocic.github.io/codata/man/codata-bookman.pdf

.SH NOTES
.PP
The codata constants from the 2022 adjustment were integrated into the Fortran 
standard library (stdlib).
This library is complementary to the constants defined in the stdlib
by providing older values for the constants.
See https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/releases/tag/v0.7.0.
If your application only requires the latest CODATA values, the
Fortran standard library may be sufficient. Use codata when you need
access to historical CODATA releases or compatibility with older
scientific results.

.PP
To use codata within your fpm(1) (https://github.com/fortran-lang/fpm)
project, add the following lines to your file:

.nf
.ft CR
 [dependencies]
 codata = { git="https://github.com/MilanSkocic/codata.git" }
.ft R
.fi

If you only need sources for the CODATA constants that can be 
integrated directly into your project, you may be interested in the 
following repository:
https://github.com/vmagnin/fundamental_constants.

.SH LICENSE
.PP
MIT

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR codata (7),
.BR codata (3),
.BR codata_cli (1),
.BR codata_version (3),
.BR codata_constant_type (3)
