.TH codata 3 "@DATE@" "@VERSION@" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
\"{{{
codata \- libray for fundamental physical constants
\"}}}

.SH LIBRARY
\"{{{
Codata library 
.RI ( libcodata ", " \-lcodata )
\"}}}

.SH SYNOPSIS
\"{{{
.IP Fortran 10 
.B use codata\fP

.IP C 10
.B #include \(dqcodata.h\(dq

.IP Python 10
.B import pycodata
\"}}}

.SH DESCRIPTION
\"{{{
.PP
\fBcodata\fP is a Fortran library providing the fundamental physical
constants published by the CODATA.
It includes the 2022, 2018, 2014 and 2010 recommended values, 
allowing applications to reproduce calculations based on specific 
CODATA releases.
.PP
The constants are implemented as a derived type that carries:
.I the name, the value, the uncertainty, and the unit.
All the constants are provided as \fBdouble precision reals\fP.
Long constant names can be aliased with shorter names.
.PP
It provides:
.IP \(bu 5 
CODATA 2022 constants
.IP \(bu 5 
CODATA 2018 constants
.IP \(bu 5 
CODATA 2014 constants
.IP \(bu 5 
CODATA 2010 constants
.IP \(bu 5 
Native Fortran API
.IP \(bu 5 
C interoperability API
.IP \(bu 5 
Python bindings

.TP
.B
Fortran API
exposes the constants as derived type \fBcodata_constant_type\fP
which carries 
.I the name, the value, the uncertainty, and the unit.
.TP
.B
C API
exposes a structure codata_constant_type that defines
the same members as in Fortran i.e.
.I the name, the value, the uncertainty, and the unit.

.TP
.B
Python
exposes a dictionary with the keys being 
.I the name, the value, the uncertainty, and the unit.
\"}}}

.SH NOTES
\"{{{
.PP
The latest values (2022) do not have the year as a suffix in their name
whereas older values (2010, 2014, 2018) feature the year as a suffix.
All constants are declared with the same variable name in Fortran, C,
and Python.

.PP
The API is written as POSIX-style man pages which are distributed with the binaries. 
.TP 
HTML
https://milanskocic.github.io/codata/index.html
.TP 
PDF 
https://milanskocic.github.io/codata/man/codata-bookman.pdf

.PP
The codata constants from the 2022 adjustment were integrated into the 
.B Fortran standard library (stdlib).
This library is complementary to the constants defined in the 
.B stdlib
by providing older values for the constants.
See https://github.com/fortran-lang/stdlib/releases/tag/v0.7.0.
If your application only requires the latest CODATA values, the
Fortran standard library may be sufficient. Use codata when you need
access to historical CODATA releases or compatibility with older
scientific results.

.PP
To use codata within your \fBfpm\fP(1) (https://github.com/fortran-lang/fpm)
project, add the following lines to your file:

.nf
.ft CR
 [dependencies]
 codata = { git="https://github.com/MilanSkocic/codata.git" }
.ft R
.fi

If you only need sources for the CODATA constants that can be 
integrated directly into your project, you may be interested in the 
following repository:
https://github.com/vmagnin/fundamental_constants.
\"}}}

.SH EXAMPLE
\"{{{
.PP
Example in Fortran
.nf
.ft CR
    program example_in_f
    use codata
    implicit none
    print '(A)', '########## EXAMPLE IN FORTRAN ##########'
    print '(A)', '# VERSION'
    print *, "version = ", version()
    print '(A)', '# CONSTANTS'
    print *, "c = ",  SPEED_OF_LIGHT_IN_VACUUM%value
    print '(A)', '# UNCERTAINTY'
    print *, "u(c) = ", SPEED_OF_LIGHT_IN_VACUUM%uncertainty
    print '(A)', '# OLDER VALUES'
    print '(A, F23.16)', "Mu_2022(latest) = ", MOLAR_MASS_CONSTANT%value
    print '(A, F23.16)', "Mu_2018 = ", MOLAR_MASS_CONSTANT_2018%value
    print '(A, F23.16)', "Mu_2014 = ",  MOLAR_MASS_CONSTANT_2014%value
    print '(A, F23.16)', "Mu_2010 = ",  MOLAR_MASS_CONSTANT_2010%value
    end program
.ft R
.fi

.PP
Example in C
.nf
.ft CR
    #include <stdio.h>
    #include "codata.h"


    int main(void){
    printf("%f", c);
    printf("########## EXAMPLE IN C ##########\\n");
    printf("%s\\n","# VERSION");
    printf("version = %s\\n", codata_version());
    printf("%s\\n","# CONSTANTS");
    printf("c = %f\\n", SPEED_OF_LIGHT_IN_VACUUM.value);
    printf("%s\\n","# UNCERTAINTY");
    printf("u(c) = %f\\n", SPEED_OF_LIGHT_IN_VACUUM.uncertainty);
    printf("%s\\n","# OLDER VALUES");
    printf("Mu_2022(latest) = %23.16f\\n", MOLAR_MASS_CONSTANT.value);
    printf("Mu_2018 = %23.16f\\n", MOLAR_MASS_CONSTANT_2018.value);
    printf("Mu_2014 = %23.16f\\n", MOLAR_MASS_CONSTANT_2014.value);
    printf("Mu_2010 = %23.16f\\n", MOLAR_MASS_CONSTANT_2010.value);
    return 0;
    }
.ft R
.fi

.PP
Example in Python
.nf
.ft CR
    import sys
    sys.path.insert(0, "../py/src/")
    import pycodata
    print("########## EXAMPLE IN PYTHON ##########")
    print("# VERSION")
    print(f"version = {pycodata.__version__}")
    print("# Constants")
    print("c =", pycodata.SPEED_OF_LIGHT_IN_VACUUM["value"])
    print("# UNCERTAINTY")
    print("u(c) = ", pycodata.SPEED_OF_LIGHT_IN_VACUUM["uncertainty"])
    print("# OLDER VALUES")
    print("Mu_2022 = ", pycodata.MOLAR_MASS_CONSTANT["value"])
    print("Mu_2018 = ", pycodata.MOLAR_MASS_CONSTANT_2018["value"])
    print("Mu_2014 = ", pycodata.MOLAR_MASS_CONSTANT_2014["value"])
    print("Mu_2010 = ", pycodata.MOLAR_MASS_CONSTANT_2010["value"])
.ft R
.fi
\"}}}

.SH SEE ALSO
\"{{{
.BR codata (3),
.BR codata_cli (1),
.BR codata_version (3),
.BR codata_constant_type (3)
\"}}}
